#1 Extracted BucketFS dialect from virtual-schemas-common-document-files (#2)
exasol/bucketfs-document-files-virtual-schema: doc/user_guide/user_guide.md

# User Guide

This user guide helps you with getting started with the BucketFS Files Virtual Schemas.

### Installation
 
Upload the latest available [release of this adapter](https://github.com/exasol/bucketfs-document-files-virtual-schema/releases) to BucketFS.
See [Create a bucket in BucketFS](https://docs.exasol.com/administration/on-premise/bucketfs/create_new_bucket_in_bucketfs_service.htm) and [Upload the driver to BucketFS](https://docs.exasol.com/administration/on-premise/bucketfs/accessfiles.htm) for details.

Then create a schema to hold the adapter script.

```
CREATE SCHEMA ADAPTER;
```

Next create the Adapter Script:
 ```
CREATE OR REPLACE JAVA ADAPTER SCRIPT ADAPTER.BUCKET_FS_FILES_ADAPTER AS
    %scriptclass com.exasol.adapter.RequestDispatcher;

>     %jar /buckets/bfsdefault/default/document-virtual-schema-dist-2.0.0-SNAPSHOT-files-0.2.0.jar;

Reviewer: Change the jar file name.

/
```

In addition to the adapter script you need to create a UDF function that will handle the loading of the data:
```
CREATE OR REPLACE JAVA SET SCRIPT ADAPTER.IMPORT_FROM_BUCKETFS_DOCUMENT_FILES(
  DATA_LOADER VARCHAR(2000000),
  REMOTE_TABLE_QUERY VARCHAR(2000000),
  CONNECTION_NAME VARCHAR(500))
  EMITS(...) AS
    %scriptclass com.exasol.adapter.document.UdfEntryPoint;
    %jar /buckets/bfsdefault/default/document-virtual-schema-dist-2.0.0-SNAPSHOT-files-0.2.0.jar;
/
```

## Creating a Connection
 

> Now you need to define a connection to place where the Files are stored:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you need to define a connection that includes the location of stored files:
```

 ```
CREATE CONNECTION BUCKETFS_CONNECTION
    TO '/bfsdefualt/default/'
    USER ''
    IDENTIFIED BY '';
```

You can leave `USER` and `IDENTIFIED BY` empty.

The path you define in the `CONNECTION` is the base path for the file names you define in the mapping definition.
The adapter will concatenate the base path and the path defined in the mapping definition. 
For security reasons you can however not navigate to directories outside of the base path (using `../`). 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Defining the Schema Mapping

Before creating a Virtual Schema you need to create a mapping definition that defines how the document data is mapped to Exasol tables.

> For that we use the Exasol Document Mapping Language (EDML). It is universal over all document virtual schemas. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that we use the Exasol Document Mapping Language (EDML). It is universal over all document Virtual Schemas. 
```

> To learn how to  define such EDML definitions check the [user guide in the common repository for all document virtual schemas](https://github.com/exasol/virtual-schema-common-document/doc/user_guide/edml_user_guide.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to  define such EDML definitions check the [user guide in the common repository for all document Virtual Schemas](https://github.com/exasol/virtual-schema-common-document/doc/user_guide/edml_user_guide.md).
```

Reviewer: Please check if you have more, rename to capitalize.

In the definitions you have to define the `source` property. 

> There you define the path to the files you can to load relative to the path you defined in the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There you define the path to the files you can load relative to the path you defined in the connection.
```

This Virtual Schema adapter automatically detects the type of the document file by the file extension.
You can find a list of supported file types and their extensions in the [user guide of the common repository for all file virtual schemas](https://github.com/exasol/virtual-schema-common-document-files/doc/user_guide/user_guide.md).

### Example

You want to define a mapping for the file `test.json` that you uploaded to the default BucketFS (`bfsdefault`) to the default bucket (`default`).

> In your `CONNECTION` you set the address to `/bfsdefault/defaul/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your `CONNECTION` you set the address to `/bfsdefault/default/`
```

Now you create a mapping definition definition with `source` set to `test.json`. 

### Mapping multiple files

For some file type (for example JSON) each source file contains only a single document. 
That means, that you have one file for each row in the mapped table.
To define mappings for such types, you can use the GLOB syntax.

> That means, that you can use `*` and `?` as wildcards, where `*` matches multiple characters and `?` a single one.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That means, you can use `*` and `?` as wildcards, where `*` matches multiple characters and `?` a single one.

```
